---
layout: post
title: "Tom King 5K and Half Marathon 2011"
date: 2011-06-22 11:28
categories: [blog]
---
I'm back!  I'll post an update about what's been going on the past few months, but first, let me do a race report about the [Tom King 5K and Half Marathon](http://tomkingclassic.com) I ran back in March. That's right, I said AND.  I ran them both... on the same day.  It seemed like a good idea when I signed up.

The first thing that was bad was that I hadn't trained for over a month before running these races.  Also, I had put on some weight.  These are not really a good combination before going out to run the longest distance you've ever run... in case you were wondering. Nevertheless, I had paid my money and wanted to get my run on, so I went out and did it.

The 5K was first (and thank goodness because I wouldn't have run it AFTER the half marathon).  I got there early and picked up my chips and swag and headed back to the car to listen to music and eat an energy bar.  I didn't feel too nervous, but I was a little anxious considering my lack of training.  Goals ran through my brain and I considered each carefully.  My first thought was just to finish both races with dignity, but as the 5K start time approached, I decided I'd go out hard and see what happened.

TK races start with bagpipes followed by the sharp crack of the gun.  I had taken up position towards the front, but was quickly passed by some better runners before settling into a group running about my speed.  After picking off the slow runners who started too far forward in the first 200 yards, I pretty much had the rest of the race to myself.  I passed a few people here and there and a few passed me, but for the most part the crowd was thin at around the 9:00 pace I was running.  My whole body began to hurt at mile 1, especially my chest which wasn't used to the deep breaths I was taking.  Around mile two I was laboring pretty hard, but still hanging in there.  At about mile 2.5 I was considering backing off a bit so I'd have something left for the half marathon, but I kept going.  As I approached the Stadium (where the finish line was), I decided to just go for it and ran as hard as I could for the last quarter mile.  As I rounded the final corner at the back of the end zone, I raced another man to the finish with a time of 27:50, a new PR by 41 seconds!

I was exhausted at that point and seriously considered not running the half marathon which was a mere 30 minutes away.  I went back to my car and got my chip and number ready for the next race and polished off another energy bar.  I went to the start and saw a few friends who where also there to just run the half.  I decided that I'd try to stick with Gail who was going for a 2:30:00 finish time.

Once again the bagpipes played and the gun sounded and I was off.  This time I was moving much slower and was towards the back of the pack.  I immediately lost track of Gail, but I knew her pace and I was going to just run that pace in 2:1 intervals (2 minutes running, one minute walking).  After about a mile, the crowd thinned a bit and I found Gail.  I didn't really do much talking.  I wanted to let her run her race and I was too tired to talk anyway.

Things went pretty well for a while.  I felt okay and the walk intervals were helping a lot.  However, it started getting harder and harder to maintain pace and at mile 7 things started to go bad.  I finally let Gail run off without me and I took a couple extra minutes for a walk break.  I started back on my intervals, but I was quickly running out of energy.  I took a 5 minute walk break and let my friend Emily catch up with me.  We ran together for a while, but I didn't want to hold her up, so I walked some more.  I actually maintained distance with Emily for a while and started feeling better, but then the cramps set in.  At first it was just one leg, but around mile 10.5 both legs started cramping.  I was out of juice and at this point I was just running until I cramped, then walking until I uncramped and repeating.  In the 11th mile I cramped up big time and had to walk most of it.  At about mile 12 I was back to running then walking in intervals.  As I approached mile 13 I started to feel like I could finish it out running.  I took off, doing the best I could running down the ramp and into the stadium.  I picked off a few people on the grass and was about to make a great finish, but then 10 feet from the finish my ENTIRE body locked up.  I almost fell down and managed to barely walk across the finish line.  I received my medal from the Titan's Cheerleader (something i'd been looking forward to), but I didn't get to enjoy it because I was in so much pain.  I fell to the ground and laid there for quite a while.  Luckily Gail and Emily were there waiting on Emily's S.O. to finish, so I had some company.  My finish time was 2:43:48 which is not my worst effort at the half marathon although it was about 27 minutes off my PR.

Despite not being able to walk for about 5 days after the races, I'm proud of what I did that day.  I got another PR in the 5K distance, and I finished (with almost no dignity) the half marathon.  Despite my experience, I might make this a regular thing and double this each year.  The key for next year will be training, training, and more training.
