---
layout: post
title: "2010 recap, 2011 preview"
date: 2011-01-01 20:56
categories: [blog]
---
I thought it would be appropriate to do a 2010 recap since that year is now over. Last year marked my return to the idea of getting healthy and active, and this time I actually followed through. It all started with a pact with my coworkers to walk the [Country Music Half Marathon]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-04-28-country-music-half-marathon-2010 %}), a pact that was quickly broken by everyone but me, and ended with hundreds of miles run and tens of pounds lost.  What follows are some of my stats from 2010 and then I will have some comments about where I want to go in 2011 and set some goals for the upcoming year. Let's get this started!

## **2010 Stats:**

*   Miles run: 688
*   Time spent: 131 hours
*   Average pace: 11:26 (min/mi)
*   Pairs of running shoes: [2]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-07-23-my-shoes-are-dead-long-live-my-shoes %})
*   Weight lost: [44 lbs]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-06-17-from-46-to-36 %})
*   5K PR: [28:31]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-07-03-firecracker-5k-2010 %})
*   10K PR: [1:06:08]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-04-12-dairy-dash-10k %})
*   Half Marathon PR: [2:16:03]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-11-07-murfreesboro-half-marathon-2010 %})
*   [Ran or walked at least one mile every day in July]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-07-01-mile-a-day-challenge %}).
*   [Went Skydiving]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-12-12-a-non-running-adventure %}).

For 2011 I want to continue on with some tangible running goals, but I also want to have some more success at weight loss and general fitness and nutrition as well.  In fact I would like to focus more on weight loss and nutrition this year and less on running goals.  Of course running will be a big part of my weight loss goals.  And as I lose weight, my running goals will get easier to attain.

I also want to extend the "[Out of Breath](http://outofbreath.org/about/)" concept to more parts of my life besides running, eating, and weight loss. I want to live my work, personal, spiritual, and financial lives as well as I intend to live my physical life.  I want to bring that same amount of dedication and focus to all aspects of my life.  Some of my goals I will list below will reflect this and I hope to write more about those things on this blog as well.  Since I'm still working on some of these things, I will just give general goals in some areas and will update later with more specific goals.  If I don't, [call me on it](http://outofbreath.org/contact/)!

## **2011 goals:**

*   Reach my goal weight of 160 lbs (lose 60 lbs)
*   Run 840 miles for the year
*   PR in the 5K, 10K, and half marathon distances
*   Develop and execute a non-running exercise routine
*   Update this blog at least once a week
*   Eat more veggies
*   Eat less fast food
*   Visit a state I've never been to
*   Pay off my credit cards and close the accounts
*   Learn about meditation
*   Read at least one book a month
*   Spend less time on the internet
*   Develop a love life :-)

I'm sure more things will come up, but I think this is a good start and I will be keeping you posted on at least a weekly basis.  If you have any advice, criticism, or encouragement, feel free to [drop me a line](http://outofbreath.org/contact/) and let me know what you think.


