---
layout: post
title: An Update for 2018
categories: [blog]
---

Today is another new day and this is a new blog post. In keeping with the plan from my the post before my [last post]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2016-07-16-a-new-day %}), I'll be updating you on where I'm at with certain value categories in my life. There's been a lot of life between now and then, so this one might be a little long.

### Buddhism
I served for one year on the board of my local Buddhist center before discovering that was more involvement than I wanted. When I started looking into Buddhism several years ago, it was always from a mental health perspective and never from an organized religion perspective. I decided that it would be better for me if I could walk away for a while and get back to the basics. I still love my teachers and sangha, but I need to refocus on me for a while in this space. 

### Health
After a few years of being stressed beyond belief, I found a new job. And after 9 months at that job, I finally had the head space to start exercising again. I joined a [gym](http://ironhouse615.com/) and hired a personal trainer. Last month I ran a 5K and turned in my slowest time ever, but I got out there and did it and that's the important part.

### Relationships
My wife and I continue to do fun stuff together. This weekend we are taking a trip to Kentucky to ride a train. That should be big fun.  I also spent some time with my family a couple weekends ago.

### Friends
I have not done a very good job of keeping up with my friends. This is an area I need to work on before my next post on the subject.

### Public Service
This past year my main focus of public service has been the Buddhist center. Now that I am no longer on the board, I plan to get back into donating platelets semi-regularly.
